Docs for CLP Pointer permissions. (#700)
ParsePlatform/Docs: _includes/common/security.md

Allowed entries for operations are:

* `*` - [Public](#public-access)
* `objectId` - [User's ID](#users-roles)
* `role:role_name` - [Role](#users-roles)
* `requiredAuthentication` - [Authenticated Users](#requires-authentication-permission-requires-parse-server--230)
* `pointerFields` - [Pointer Permissions](#pointer-permissions)

And any combinations of the above:

```js
// PUT http://localhost:1337/schemas/:className
// Set the X-Parse-Application-Id and X-Parse-Master-Key header
// body:
{
  classLevelPermissions:
  {
    "get": {
      "*": true, // means Public access
      "s0meUs3r1d": true, // key must be an id of `_User`
      "role:admin": true, // key must be `role:${role_name}`
      "requiresAuthentication": true, // any authenticated users

>       "pointerFields": ["onwer", "followers"] // pointer permissions

Reviewer: owner.

{
  "title": "Bob's feed"
  "owner": {
    "__type":"Pointer",
    "className":"_User",
    "objectId":"B0Bs0id"
  },
  "subscribers": [
    {
      "__type":"Pointer",
      "className":"_User",
      "objectId":"A1ice0id"
    }
  ]
}

```
{% endif %}

{% if page.language == "cpp" %}
```cpp
// No C++ example

// two users
alice, bob;

// two objects
{
  title: 'Posts by Alice',
  owner: alice,
  subscribers: [], // notice no subscribers here
}

{
  title: 'Posts by Bob',
  owner: bob,
  subscribers: [ alice ], // notice Alice in subscribers
}
```
{% endif %}

In the example above:

* Anyone is allowed to `create` objects.
* `feedA` can be viewed (`get`,`find`) only by **Alice** (pointed to in `owners` field).
* `feedB` can be viewed (`get`,`find`) both by **Bob** and **Alice** (Bob is pointed to in `owners`, Alice is pointed to in `subscribers`).
* Only owners are allowed to `update` and `delete`.

### Grouped Pointer Permissions

These are similar to [`pointerFields`](#granular-pointer-permissions), but cover multiple operations at once:

**`readUserFields`**:

* `get`,
* `find`,
* `count`

**`writeUserFields`**:

* `update`,
* `delete`,
* `addField`

> Same scheme as for previous example can be defined shorter:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**`readUserFields`**:

* `get`
* `find`
* `count`

**`writeUserFields`**:

* `update`
* `delete`
* `addField`

The same scheme as for previous example can be defined in a more compact manner:
```

```json
{
    "<SENDER_USER_ID>": {
        "read": true,
        "write": true
    },
    "<RECEIVER_USER_ID>": {
        "read": true
    }
}
```

Note that this ACL is not actually created on each object. Any existing ACLs will not be modified when you add or remove pointer permissions, and any user attempting to interact with an object can only interact with the object if both the virtual ACL created by the pointer permissions, and the real ACL already on the object allow the interaction. For this reason, it can sometimes be confusing to combine pointer permissions and ACLs, so we recommend using pointer permissions for classes that don't have many ACLs set. Fortunately, it's easy to remove pointer permissions if you later decide to use Cloud Code or ACLs to secure your app.

To use this feature, a field must:

* already exist in this collection's schema
* be of either `Pointer<_User>` or `Array` type

In case of `Array`, only items that are of `Pointer<_User>` type are evaluated, other items silently ignored.

> You can think of it as a virtual ACL or a dynamic role defined per-object in its own field.

Reviewer 2: Seems repetitive...
```suggestion
```

> There are two ways you can set Pointer Permission in schema:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are two ways you can set Pointer Permissions in schema:
```

> * [Using granular permissions](#granular-pointer-permissions) - `pointerFields` *requires Parse-Server v3.11 and above*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [Using granular permissions](#granular-pointer-permissions) - `pointerFields` *requires Parse Server v3.11 or above*
```

* [Using grouped permissions](#grouped-pointer-permissions) - `readUserFields`/`writeUserFields`

> ⚠️ `create` operation can't be allowed by pointer permissions, because there is literally no object to check it's field untill it is created;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
⚠️ The `create` operation can't be controlled by Pointer Permissions, because there is no object to check the field of until it is created;
```

> ⚠️ `addField`  grants permission to only update an object with a new field, but it is advised to set addField permission using other means (e.g. restrict to a role or particular admin user by id).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
⚠️ The `addField` operation  grants permission to only update an object with a new field, but it is advised to set `addField` permissions using other means (e.g. restrict to a role or particular admin user by `id`).
```

$feedA->set("subscribers", []); // notice no subscribers here

$feedB = ParseObject::create("Feed");
$feedB->set("title", "Posts by Bob");
$feedB->set("owner", $bob);
$feedB->set("subscribers", [ $alice ]); // notice alice in subscribers

```
{% endif %}

{% if page.language == "bash" %}
```bash
# given two users Alice and Bob

# and two objects:

# 1. owned by Alice
# notice subscribers empty
{
  "title": "Alice's feed"
  "owner": {
    "__type":"Pointer",
    "className":"_User",
    "objectId":"A1ice0id"
  },
  "subscribers": []
}

# 2. owned by Bob
# notice Alice in subscribers array
{
  "title": "Bob's feed"
  "owner": {
    "__type":"Pointer",
    "className":"_User",
    "objectId":"B0Bs0id"
  },
  "subscribers": [
    {
      "__type":"Pointer",
      "className":"_User",
      "objectId":"A1ice0id"
    }
  ]
}

```
{% endif %}

{% if page.language == "cpp" %}
```cpp
// No C++ example

// two users
alice, bob;

// two objects
{
  title: 'Posts by Alice',
  owner: alice,
  subscribers: [], // notice no subscribers here
}

{
  title: 'Posts by Bob',
  owner: bob,
  subscribers: [ alice ], // notice Alice in subscribers
}
```
{% endif %}

In the example above:

> * anyone is allowed to `create` objects.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Anyone is allowed to `create` objects.
```

> * `feedA` can be viewed (`get`,`find`) only by **Alice**. (pointed in owners field)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `feedA` can be viewed (`get`,`find`) only by **Alice** (pointed to in `owners` field).
```

> * `feedB` can be viewed (`get`,`find`) both by **Bob** and **Alice**. (Bob is pointed in `owners`. Alice is pointed in `subscribers`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `feedB` can be viewed (`get`,`find`) both by **Bob** and **Alice** (Bob is pointed to in `owners`, Alice is pointed to in `subscribers`).
```

> * only owners are allowed to `update` and `delete`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Only owners are allowed to `update` and `delete`.
```

For each of the above actions, you can grant permission to all users (which is the default), or lock permissions down to a list of roles and users. For example, a class that should be available to all users would be set to read-only by only enabling get and find. A logging class could be set to write-only by only allowing creates. You could enable moderation of user-generated content by providing update and delete access to a particular set of users or roles.

Allowed entries for operations are:

> * `*`  -  [Public](#public-access)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `*` - [Public](#public-access)
```

* `objectId` - [User's ID](#users-roles)
* `role:role_name` - [Role](#users-roles)
* `requiredAuthentication` - [Authenticated Users](#requires-authentication-permission-requires-parse-server--230)
* `pointerFields` - [Pointer Permissions](#pointer-permissions)

And any combinations of the above:

```js
// PUT http://localhost:1337/schemas/:className
// Set the X-Parse-Application-Id and X-Parse-Master-Key header
// body:
{
  classLevelPermissions:
  {
    "get": {
      "*": true, // means Public access
      "s0meUs3r1d": true, // key must be an id of `_User`
      "role:admin": true, // key must be `role:${role_name}`
      "requiresAuthentication": true, // any authenticated users
      "pointerFields": ["onwer", "followers"] // pointer permissions
    },
    "find": {...},    // ... create, update, delete, addField
    "readUserFields": ["followers", "owner"], // grouped pointer permissions
    "writeUserFields": ["owner"], // grouped pointer permissions
    "protectedFields": {
      "*": ["password","email"],
       "userField:owner":[]
    }
  }
}
```

### Public access

> `*` - Allows anyone despite authentication status to execute operation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`*` - Allows anyone regardless of authentication status to execute the operation.
```

```js
{
  classLevelPermissions:
  {
    "get": {
      "*": true, // Public access
    }
  }
}
```

### Users, Roles

> This works exactly as ACL's

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This works exactly like ACLs.
```

```js
{
  classLevelPermissions:
  {
    "find": {
      "s0meUs3r1d": true, // key must be an id of `_User`
      "role:admin": true, // key must be `role:${role_name}`
    }
  }
}
```

> ### Requires Authentication permission (requires parse-server  >= 2.3.0)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Requires Authentication permission
```

> Starting version 2.3.0, parse-server introduces a new Class Level Permission `requiresAuthentication`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Starting with version 2.3.0, Parse Server introduced a new Class Level Permission `requiresAuthentication`. It prevents any non authenticated user from performing the action protected by the CLP.
```

> This CLP prevents any non authenticated user from performing the action protected by the CLP.

Reviewer 2: Moved to the paragraph above...
```suggestion
```

> If you want to restrict access to a full class to only authenticated users, you can use the `requiresAuthentication` class level permission. For example, you want to allow your **authenticated users** to `find` and `get` objects from your application and your admin users to have all privileges, you would set the CLP:

Reviewer 2: First sentence seemed to be largely repeating the earlier explanation...
```suggestion
For example, if you want to allow your **authenticated users** to `find` and `get` objects from your application and your admin users to have all privileges, you could set the following CLP:
```

```js
{
  classLevelPermissions:
  {
    "get": {
      "requiresAuthentication": true,
      "role:admin": true
    },
    "find": {
      "requiresAuthentication": true,
      "role:admin": true
    },
    "create": { "role:admin": true },
    "update": { "role:admin": true },
    "delete": { "role:admin": true },
  }
}
```

Effects:

* Non authenticated users won't be able to do anything.

> * Authenticated users (any user with a valid sessionToken) will be able to read all the objects in that class

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Authenticated users (any user with a valid `sessionToken`) will be able to read all the objects in that class.
```

* Users belonging to the admin role, will be able to perform all operations.

⚠️ Note that this is in no way securing your content, if you allow anyone to login to your server, every client will still be able to query this object.

## Pointer Permissions

> While permissions discussed before let you explicitly target a user by id or a role, Pointer Permissions let you dynamically enforce permissions without knowing the id or assigning roles in advance. Instead you define one or more field names of this class, and any users pointed by such fields of a particular object are granted the permission.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While the permissions discussed before let you explicitly target a user by `id` or a role, Pointer Permissions let you dynamically enforce permissions without knowing the `id` or assigning roles in advance. Instead you define one or more field names of a class, and any users pointed to by such fields of a particular object are granted the permission.
```

Author: Well there is a field that points (holds pointers to) user(s) => users are pointed by (or may be 'in') these fields. What do you think?  `to` seems a bit misleading to me

Reviewer 2: `to` seems right to me but perhaps I'm misunderstanding how it works

Author: Imagine u have a PullRequest class, with one of its columns 'reviewers'.  in 'reviewers' there are ids of various people having rights to review it. Given a `Pointer<_User>` (_your_id_) is listed in `reviewers` column. Is it ok to say you are pointed to this column? Or you are pointed by/in this column?

Reviewer 2: Ok, I've got it. Personally I think 'pointed to by this column' makes more sense.

Reviewer 2: Changes applied in commit 0bb548e

> Pointer permissions are a special type of class-level permission that create a virtual ACL on every object in a class, based on users stored in pointer fields on those objects. For example, given a class with an `owner` field, setting a read pointer permission on `owner` will make each object in the class only readable by the user in that object's `owner` field. For a class with a `sender` and a `reciever` field, a read pointer permission on the `receiver` field and a read and write pointer permission on the `sender` field will make each object in the class readable by the user in the `sender` and `receiver` field, and writable only by the user in the `sender` field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Pointer Permissions are a special type of class-level permission that create a virtual ACL on every object in a class, based on the users stored in pointer fields on those objects. For example, given a class with an `owner` field, setting a read pointer permission on `owner` will make each object in the class only readable by the user in that object's `owner` field. For a class with a `sender` and a `reciever` field, a read pointer permission on the `receiver` field and a read and write pointer permission on the `sender` field will make each object in the class readable by the user in the `sender` and `receiver` field, and writable only by the user in the `sender` field.
```
